changelog 24.7.0 (#14046)
conda/conda: CHANGELOG.md

[//]: # (current developments)

## 24.7.0 (2024-07-17)

### Enhancements

> * Add a new `reporters` setting for configure output. (#13736)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add a new `reporters` setting for configuring output. (#13736)
```

* Mark `conda.exports.hash_file` as pending deprecation. (#14034)
* Mark `conda.exports.verify` as pending deprecation. (#14034)
* Mark `conda.exports.symlink_conda` as pending deprecation. Use `conda.activate` instead. (#14034)
* Mark `conda.exports._symlink_conda_hlp` as pending deprecation. Use `conda.activate` instead. (#14034)
* Mark `conda.exports.win_conda_bat_redirect` as pending deprecation. Use `conda.activate` instead. (#14034)
* Mark `conda.utils.win_path_to_cygwin` as pending deprecation. Use `conda.common.path.win_path_to_unix` instead. (#14034)
* Mark `conda.utils.cygwin_path_to_win` as pending deprecation. Use `conda.utils.unix_path_to_win` instead. (#14034)
* Mark `conda.utils.translate_stream` as pending deprecation. (#14034)
* Mark `conda.utils.unix_shell_base` as pending deprecation. Use `conda.activate` instead. (#14034)
* Mark `conda.utils.msys2_shell_base` as pending deprecation. Use `conda.activate` instead. (#14034)
* Mark `conda.utils.shells` as pending deprecation. Use `conda.activate` instead. (#14034)

### Docs

* Clarify proxy server configuration in documentation. (#12856)
* Add type hints and doc strings to `conda.core.envs_manager`. (#13817)

> * Add logging overview as deep-dive (#13735)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add logging overview as deep-dive. (#13735)
```

[//]: # (current developments)

## 24.7.0 (2024-07-17)

### Enhancements

> * MSYS2 packages can now use the upstream installation prefixes. (#13649)

Reviewer 2: Removing this since it was included in the 24.5.0 release.

```suggestion
```

* Add a new `reporters` setting for configure output. (#13736)
* Report traceback of plugin loading errors with verbosity 2 or higher (`-vv` or more). (#13742 via #13846)
* Skip checking for `.pyc` and `.pyo` files in the `conda doctor` "missing files" health check. (#13370 via #13931)
* **Breaking change**  `conda list --explicit` will not print authentication details by default. A new flag `--auth` has been added so folks can opt-in to this behaviour. (#13936)
* Print transaction report for `@EXPLICIT` lockfile installs too. (#13940)
* Do not require `-n/--name` or `-p/--prefix` if `conda create` is invoked with `--dry-run`. (#13941)

> Add an `envvars_force_uppercase` setting which defaults to `True`, uppercasing all environment variables (thereby justifying `conda`'s current behaviour); when `envvars_force_uppercase` is set to `False`, conda will only save preserved-case variable names. (#13713 via #13943)

Reviewer 2: Missing bullet point:

```suggestion
* Add an `envvars_force_uppercase` setting which defaults to `True`, uppercasing all environment variables (thereby justifying `conda`'s current behaviour); when `envvars_force_uppercase` is set to `False`, conda will only save preserved-case variable names. (#13713 via #13943)
```

* Alias `conda env list` command to `conda info --envs`. (#13972)

### Bug fixes

> * Improve treatment of logger levels (#13735)

Reviewer 2: Missing period:

```suggestion
* Improve treatment of logger levels. (#13735)
```

* Mask authentication details in `conda-meta/*.json` metadata. (#13937)
* Mask Anaconda.org tokens in verbose logs. (#13939, #13987)

> * Fixes parsing error when history file only contains a single commented line (#13960)

Reviewer 2: Use imperative tense and add missing period:

```suggestion
* Fix parsing error when history file only contains a single commented line. (#13960)
```

* Add missing `emscripten` and `wasi` entries to the recognized platforms, and `wasm32` to the recognized architectures. (#13095)

> * Checksum comparisons in `conda.gateways.connection.download.download()` are not case sensitive anymore. (#13969)

Reviewer 2: Imperative tense:

```suggestion
* Fix checksum comparisons in `conda.gateways.connection.download.download()` to be case insensitive. (#13969)
```

* Disallow some more characters in Windows for prefix names (`^`, `%`, `!`, `=`, `(`, `)`, `\`). These characters complicate or prevent environment activation if present. (#12558 via #13975)
* Fix caching when `repodata.json` contains `\r\n` line endings. (#14002 via #14003)

> * Fix binary_replace not matching chunks that end with `\n`. (#14043 via #14044)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fix `conda.core.portability.binary_replace` not matching chunks that end with `\n`. (#14043 via #14044)
```

* Mark `conda.exports.symlink_conda` as pending deprecation. Use `conda.activate` instead. (#14034)
* Mark `conda.exports._symlink_conda_hlp` as pending deprecation. Use `conda.activate` instead. (#14034)
* Mark `conda.exports.win_conda_bat_redirect` as pending deprecation. Use `conda.activate` instead. (#14034)
* Mark `conda.utils.win_path_to_cygwin` as pending deprecation. Use `conda.common.path.win_path_to_unix` instead. (#14034)
* Mark `conda.utils.cygwin_path_to_win` as pending deprecation. Use `conda.utils.unix_path_to_win` instead. (#14034)
* Mark `conda.utils.translate_stream` as pending deprecation. (#14034)
* Mark `conda.utils.unix_shell_base` as pending deprecation. Use `conda.activate` instead. (#14034)
* Mark `conda.utils.msys2_shell_base` as pending deprecation. Use `conda.activate` instead. (#14034)
* Mark `conda.utils.shells` as pending deprecation. Use `conda.activate` instead. (#14034)

### Docs

* Clarify proxy server configuration in documentation. (#12856)
* Added type hints and doc strings to `conda.core.envs_manager`. (#13817)
* Add logging overview as deep-dive (#13735)
* Update conda cheatsheet text and add it directly to cheatsheet page. (#13889)

> * Added cheatsheet PDF download to cheatsheet page. (#13909)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Add cheatsheet PDF download to cheatsheet page. (#13909)
```

* Added `ssl_verify: truststore` to the user guide. (#13935)

> * Fixed the help text of the `satisfied-skip-solve` flag. (#13946)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fix the help text of the `satisfied-skip-solve` flag. (#13946)
```

* Add a section explaining how to correctly raise exceptions from a plugin. (#13741 via #13950)
* Add new article for configuring `envs_dirs` and `pkgs_dirs`. (#13954)

### Other

> * Replace calls to logger.warn with logger.warning (#13963)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Replace calls to `logger.warn` with `logger.warning`. (#13963)
```
